"International financial flows can only hinder economic growth." Discuss
-----

There are two main types for international financial flows.  One is foreign
direct investment and the other is portfolio investment.  The key difference
between the two is that foreign direct investment (FDI) consists of investment,
technology and management whereas portfolio investment consists of bonds or
shares. In addition, FDI is more of a long term investment than portfolio
investment.  

There are many effects from FDI and although the exact effect depends on the
characteristics of the economy, Greenhalgh lists them as:

> effects of inward FDI include a direct positive impact on GDP, increased tax
> revenues, increased exports, increased competition on domestic firms,
> technology spillovers to domestic firms, and forward and backward linkages to
> domestic firms...

To discuss the net impact further, of these effects the possible negative
effects are those impacting domestic firms. From a short-term perspective, the
competition from domestic firms could cause a loss of jobs and a decrease on
GDP.  However, over the long run GDP, domestic economy growth and overall social
welfare could increase do to spillovers, increased competition and tax income.
Greenhalgh mentions that overall there is a net benefit from FDI.

On the other hand portfolio investments are trickier to gauge their effect.  On
one hand it allows investors to pick out the most innovative firms and supply
them with increased income.  However, in practice portfolio investments increase
the market instability because cash can be so easily moved around.  Instability
is not good for companies who need to plan for the long term.


Under what circumstances might the TRIPS agreement damage welfare in poorer countries?
----------
The TRIPS agreement can negatively affect poorer countries in the following
circumstances.  First, they must have signed a treaty to agree to partake in
TRIPS, otherwise they are not bound to recognize foreigners' patents and "free
ride".  Second, the poorer country should have few or no inventors.  With
inventors, there would be an incentive to have a patent system similar to what
TRIPS imposes on the country and therefore TRIPS would not bring anything new to
the table. 

When these two circumstances are in place, foreign countries can enjoy patent
protection amongst a wide variety of poorer countries with which they can
continue to extract profits from due to the monopolistic characteristics of
IPRs.  If there is a sense of total welfare, the poorer country will begin to
have a smaller and smaller piece of the pie, while more and more inventions will
take place in advanced countries from which can benefit from IPR protection in
the poorer country.

