Can the "Luddite view" be justified?
-------
The Luddite view is that the introduction of new technology will negatively
effect jobs especially in the case of new capital equipment.  Usually it is seen
as a misconception because employers don't keep a constant output with fewer
workers but instead expand their output from a given workforce. However, the
Luddite view can still be justified if it is wrong to assume that a firm can
scale their output up.  It may be the case that the demand curve is vertical, in
which case low skilled workers will be directly displaced by new technology.  

In addition, the Luddite view can be justified when the new technology causes a
shift in job demand across industries or sectors. If the workers cannot retrain
to match the new demand in other areas, they will risk loosing their jobs.  This
same effect may be seen if the composition of the demand for jobs changes to
weigh more heavily in for the higher skilled workers. Again, the assumption is
that the old workers do not have the ability to transition to becoming a higher
skilled worker.

Discuss the trends in the relative wages of skilled to unskilled workers in your country.
-----

In the United States, there has been a prevalent difference in wages between
unskilled workers and high skilled.  Greenhalgh attributes this difference to
the continued demand for high skilled workers that has outrun any supply
thereof, which is also called skill-biased technological changed. Table 10.2 in
Greenhalgh illustrates this further that although supply of graduates in
employment increased from 19.3% to 27.5%, the relative wages to non-graduates
also continued to increase from 1.36 to 1.66.  The driving factor behind this
pattern is that the "...higher skilled [workers] are complementary to capital
equipment, while the low skilled are substitutes..." In addition the US has had a
recent surge of computer aided work.  Computers increased this relative
difference because they are replacements for the unskilled jobs that are routine
and follow a set of known steps.

In addition, the international scene has contributed to this effect in that many
Asian countries have joined international trade and brought an abundant supply of
unskilled workers. However, these unskilled workers are paid even less than
those in the United States so have further decreased the demand for unskilled
workers in the US, as detailed by Wood (1994). Overall this effect leads to the
developed countries specializing in new products where higher skilled workers
are needed.

A final factor in the difference in wages of workers with regards to skill is
that there is more demand for luxury goods and services for higher income
countries than for necessities or for inferior goods and services.  Since luxury
goods and services may be produced by more skilled labor and the lesser goods by
the less skilled labor this increases the relative difference in wages.
