Andrew DeMaria
Homework 6
Econ and Tech

1. Why are the returns to IPRs so skewed?

The distribution of returns to IPRs is skewed for a couple reasons.  First,
there are many patents that are registered but don't have any value. One way to
discover this is to look at how many patents are let expire.  The logical reason
for letting a patent expire is that its value is less than the cost of renewing
it, which is low in the first place. Schankerman and Pakes found that over "50%
of the patents were not renewed past ten years in France, Germany, and the
United Kingdom".

Another indication of the skewness shows that there are very few patents that
are valued very highly.  A survey by PatVal-EU showed that "7.2% of patents were
worth more than ten million euros, while 68% were worth less than one million,
and 8% were worth less than thirty thousand euros." In addition, IPRs besides
patents showed the same empirical data.  Trademarks and copyrights by large
firms such as Coca-Cola, Disney, Marlboro, and Google held very large values
upwards of tens of billions. This coupled with the face that the cost of a
copyright/trademark is usually less than a thousand dollars, shows that
trademarks and copyrights show the same skewness as patents.

Besides the general studies, Greenhalgh and Rogers also mention an interesting
study that surveyed patent holders whose patents were expiring.  When asked what
they should have valued the patent at back in its inception, many answered with
values that were "hundreds of times higher than those in other studies." With
patents such as these being compared against patents of basically zero value,
there is a clear explanation for the distribution skewness of returns to IPRs.

5. Are small or large firms more likely to use the patent system?  Does the
   patent system help or hinder new firms?

Although there are always disagreements as to how the patent system affects
firms, there is some agreement as to how it affects firms with relation to their
size. To first examine the question, there are many reasons why a large firm
would want to utilize the patent system.  The de facto reason is to gain a
possibly temporary increase in market power that allows them to either charge
more for a product/service or to increase their market share by lowering prices.
A related reason would be to influence suppliers when a patent applies to their
product/service.  Another reason is to signal investors the viability of their
profits since patents are seen as one indicator of firm success. In an age where
cooperation is important, patents also provide a sort of bargaining chip for
negotiating. The final reason for patenting, would be as an attack/defense tool.
In the case of a defense tool it can be used to prevent someone from inventing
around you or to prevent someone from litigating against you with their own
patent. In the case of an offensive tool, it can be used as an entire business
model: rent seeking against firms that may be infringing on the patent.

Of these reasons for patenting, most of them make sense in the eye of a large
firm, so the real question is do any of these make sense for a small firm?  A
small firm often times does not have the complementary inputs to take full
advantage of increased market power. Also, small firms do not usually have the
resources to take on the offensive or defensive with their patents. Doing either
of these involves some risk and the small chance that a court case could
completely wipe out a firm especially with the possibility of a preliminary
injunction. However, with these cons in mind, there is at least one pro for
smaller firms going for patents. Primarily small firms can benefit greatly from
signaling with their patents as it draws the eyes of both investors and
potential buyouts. 

From this discussion, it can be easily seen that larger firms are more likely to
pursue patenting than smaller firms.  Not only can they diversify their risk and
utilize existing complementary assets, they can also take more advantage of the
market power derived from patenting.  Greenhalgh and Rogers further back this up
by showing that small firms and individuals have a disadvantage in legal
disputes. They also mention that "smaller R&D active firms tend to rate patents
as less important, suggesting that they have more difficulty in benefiting form
the patent system"
