1. What is the importance of diminishing marginal returns in the neoclassical
   model? How do other models deal with the possibility of diminishing returns?

First of all, the model inherent with the neoclassical model is the Cobb-Douglas
function which as illustrated in Appendix AI has the following form, where the
uppercase letters A, K and L represent the technology scale, capital, and labor,
respectively.  The lower case letters alpha and beta represent the nature of
scale for the economy.

    Y = A * K^a * L^b

Right away it can be seen how diminishing returns are introduced into the model.
Since typically a and b are fraction of 1 and coupled with each other, the
returns from increases in capital or labor are scaled back in an exponential
form and introduce the diminishing returns for both inputs. In further detail,
the rate increase of capital per worker is represented by the following
equation: 

    dk / dt = s*y - (sigma + n) * k

It is important to realize that capital increases stop when the dilution and
depreciation of capital match the rate at which it is saved.  Attempting to
further increase capital savings beyond this point will decrease the amount of
consumption per worker and un-stabilize the economy.

Besides the neoclassical view of economic models, there are the endogenous
models.  For the AK model, it is assumed that there are no diminishing returns
to capital.  For the Knowledge Externality Model, the individual firms face the
same diminishing production function for investments in knowledge similar to the
neoclassical model, but for the economy as a whole, the production function is
constant and changes to knowledge affect the entire economy in a constant,
long-term fashion.  The Human Capital Model is similar to the AK model in that
there are no diminishing returns. For the CD and R&D models, as long as labor
supplied to the effort of research is constant, the returns to technology are
constant.  However, the effectiveness of R&D may have diminishing returns based
on past R&D. 

5. Is more competition good for economic growth?

Overall, competition's contributions to economic growth depend on the model used
and the variables at play.  However, in general long-run economic growth cannot
be supported by capital investment along and needs growth in technology.  So the
question is then boiled down to: "is competition good for increasing
innovation?", which in turn asks the question, "can a firm get increased profits
from competition?" 

There are two general forms of competition to look at. The first is dynamic
competition. With this kind of competition firms compete to get new products
into the market.  Without this kind of competition, incumbent firms have lower
incentives to innovate and thus it is expected that economic growth increases
with this kind of competition.  However, it can go too far in that if there are
too many firms and the number of firms is reduced, the R&D per firm increases
which leads to more innovations. 

The second kind of competition is called static competition and deals with firms
competing on a market basis.  If static competition is increased, then a firm's
profits are lower which lowers the incentives to innovate which lower economic
growth.  However there is another take in that there are firm inefficiencies
without static competition and thus increasing competition forces a firm to
reduce these inefficiencies through innovation.
